1. Curses come in two varieties - earned and acquired. Earned curses are that are granted directly to someone by one of the few entities that can grant them. They're harder to pass, and considerably more powerful. 
2. Most curses that people deal with are acquired, meaning they picked it up from another party either intentionally or unintentionally. You may carry a curse that's minor and not even realize you'd picked it up. Before you know it's there, it may be gone. These are usually weaker; though very powerful acquired curses still exist, they often end up in collections of the rich and influential within Tidwell. Either as tools or as novelties. 
3. Curses harm the bearer directly. Every curse is a bargain made manifest. For every benefit, an equal price is drawn. This is true regardless of the subject, and gaming the system is impossible. 
	- For instance, a powerful luck wish may generate a corresponding curse that equal bad luck will befall that person's closest companion. If the bearer of the curse has no close companions or wouldn't feel bad that someone else's misfortune was their fault - the course would be much more ephemeral than one that caused the bearer direct consequences. If a sociopath obtained that curse, they may be able to hold it for only a short while before the curse found a more attractive host. 
4. Wishes and curses are balanced. They may take wildly different shapes, but they are always partnered with a commensurate opposite.
5. Curses and wishes only dissipate once - when they become acquired after being earned. They cannot be destroyed, and despite centuries of research there is no known effective way to otherwise alter their nature.
6. Every curse has a physical representation. Sometimes, this will take the form of a trinket you can't get rid of. Sometimes this may become a part of your body. Sometimes it's locked away deep inside of you. How much the curse impacts your life is represented by how your body bears it.
	- The same luck wish from above may be a coin in the purse of a devout member of the [[Church of the Bent Trunk]], but it may replace the eye of a character who spends all day betting on [[Teetles]]races.